packages/graphile-build-pg/README.md, before:

# graphile-build-pg

<span class="badge-patreon"><a href="https://patreon.com/benjie" title="Support Graphile development on Patreon"><img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/sponsor-via%20Patreon-orange.svg" alt="Patreon sponsor button" /></a></span>
[![Discord chat room](https://img.shields.io/discord/489127045289476126.svg)](http://discord.gg/graphile)
[![Package on npm](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/graphile-build-pg.svg?style=flat)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/graphile-build-pg)
![MIT license](https://img.shields.io/npm/l/graphile-build-pg.svg)
[![Follow](https://img.shields.io/badge/twitter-@GraphileHQ-blue.svg)](https://twitter.com/GraphileHQ)

`graphile-build-pg` is a collection of Graphile Engine plugins that allow you
to extend your GraphQL schema with high-performance types and fields based on
resources found in your PostgreSQL database schema.

Thanks to Graphile Engine's advanced [query
look-ahead](https://www.graphile.org/graphile-build/look-ahead/) features,
the plugins in this package do not exhibit the N+1 query problem common in
many database-based GraphQL APIs. For all but the flattest GraphQL queries
these plugins typically outperform `DataLoader`-based solutions.

An example of an application built on `graphile-build-pg` is
[PostGraphile](https://github.com/graphile/postgraphile) which with one
command connects to your PostgreSQL database and provides a full highly
performant standards-compliant GraphQL API.

**It is recommended that you use PostGraphile directly unless you really want
to get low level access to this library.**

If you prefer to use the plugins yourself it's advised that you use the
`defaultPlugins` export from `graphile-build-pg` and then create a new array
based on that into which you may insert or remove specific plugins. This is
because it is ordered in a way to ensure the plugins work correctly (and we
may still split up or restructure the plugins).

### Export: `defaultPlugins`

An array of graphql-build plugins in the correct order to generate a
well-thought-out GraphQL object tree based on your PostgreSQL schema. This is
the array that `postgraphile-core` uses.

### Manual usage

```js
import { defaultPlugins, getBuilder } from "graphile-build";
import { defaultPlugins as pgDefaultPlugins } from "graphile-build-pg";

async function getSchema(
  pgConfig = process.env.DATABASE_URL,
  pgSchemas = ["public"],
  additionalPlugins = []
) {
  return getBuilder(
    [...defaultPlugins, ...pgDefaultPlugins, ...additionalPlugins],
    {
      pgConfig,
      pgSchemas,
      pgExtendedTypes: true,
    }
  );
}
```

Commit message:

sponsorship: add featured sponsors to READMEs

packages/graphile-build-pg/README.md, after:

# graphile-build-pg

<span class="badge-patreon"><a href="https://patreon.com/benjie" title="Support Graphile development on Patreon"><img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/sponsor-via%20Patreon-orange.svg" alt="Patreon sponsor button" /></a></span>
[![Discord chat room](https://img.shields.io/discord/489127045289476126.svg)](http://discord.gg/graphile)
[![Package on npm](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/graphile-build-pg.svg?style=flat)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/graphile-build-pg)
![MIT license](https://img.shields.io/npm/l/graphile-build-pg.svg)
[![Follow](https://img.shields.io/badge/twitter-@GraphileHQ-blue.svg)](https://twitter.com/GraphileHQ)

`graphile-build-pg` is a collection of Graphile Engine plugins that allow you
to extend your GraphQL schema with high-performance types and fields based on
resources found in your PostgreSQL database schema.

<!-- SPONSORS_BEGIN -->

## Crowd-funded open-source software

To help us develop this software sustainably under the MIT license, we ask
all individuals and businesses that use it to help support its ongoing
maintenance and development via sponsorship.

### [Click here to find out more about sponsors and sponsorship.](https://www.graphile.org/sponsor/)

And please give some love to our featured sponsors 🤩:

<table><tr>
<td align="center"><a href="http://chads.website/"><img src="https://www.graphile.org/images/sponsors/chadf.png" width="90" height="90" alt="Chad Furman" /><br />Chad Furman</a></td>
<td align="center"><a href="https://timescale.com/"><img src="https://www.graphile.org/images/sponsors/timescale.svg" width="90" height="90" alt="Timescale" /><br />Timescale</a></td>
</tr></table>

<!-- SPONSORS_END -->

## About

Thanks to Graphile Engine's advanced [query
look-ahead](https://www.graphile.org/graphile-build/look-ahead/) features,
the plugins in this package do not exhibit the N+1 query problem common in
many database-based GraphQL APIs. For all but the flattest GraphQL queries
these plugins typically outperform `DataLoader`-based solutions.

An example of an application built on `graphile-build-pg` is
[PostGraphile](https://github.com/graphile/postgraphile) which with one
command connects to your PostgreSQL database and provides a full highly
performant standards-compliant GraphQL API.

**It is recommended that you use PostGraphile directly unless you really want
to get low level access to this library.**

If you prefer to use the plugins yourself it's advised that you use the
`defaultPlugins` export from `graphile-build-pg` and then create a new array
based on that into which you may insert or remove specific plugins. This is
because it is ordered in a way to ensure the plugins work correctly (and we
may still split up or restructure the plugins).

### Export: `defaultPlugins`

An array of graphql-build plugins in the correct order to generate a
well-thought-out GraphQL object tree based on your PostgreSQL schema. This is
the array that `postgraphile-core` uses.

### Manual usage

```js
import { defaultPlugins, getBuilder } from "graphile-build";
import { defaultPlugins as pgDefaultPlugins } from "graphile-build-pg";

async function getSchema(
  pgConfig = process.env.DATABASE_URL,
  pgSchemas = ["public"],
  additionalPlugins = []
) {
  return getBuilder(
    [...defaultPlugins, ...pgDefaultPlugins, ...additionalPlugins],
    {
      pgConfig,
      pgSchemas,
      pgExtendedTypes: true,
    }
  );
}
```
