packages/graphile-build/README.md, before:

# graphile-build

<span class="badge-patreon"><a href="https://patreon.com/benjie" title="Support Graphile development on Patreon"><img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/sponsor-via%20Patreon-orange.svg" alt="Patreon sponsor button" /></a></span>
[![Discord chat room](https://img.shields.io/discord/489127045289476126.svg)](http://discord.gg/graphile)
[![Package on npm](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/graphile-build.svg?style=flat)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/graphile-build)
![MIT license](https://img.shields.io/npm/l/graphile-build.svg)
[![Follow](https://img.shields.io/badge/twitter-@GraphileHQ-blue.svg)](https://twitter.com/GraphileHQ)

`graphile-build` is the core of Graphile Engine. It provides a framework to
build high-performance extensible GraphQL APIs by combining plugins and using
advanced query look-ahead features. Each plugin typically has its own small
purpose (such as implementing the Node interface, adding `query: Query` to
mutation payloads, or watching an external source for schema changes) and by
combining these plugins together you get a large, powerful, and manageable
GraphQL schema. Plugins enable you to make broad changes to your GraphQL
schema with minimal code and without sacrificing performance.

An example of an application built on `graphile-build` is
[PostGraphile](https://github.com/graphile/postgraphile) which with one
command connects to your PostgreSQL database and provides a full highly
performant standards-compliant GraphQL API. The separate `graphile-build-pg`
module contains the plugins that are specific to PostgreSQL support
(`graphile-build` itself does not know about databases).

**For in-depth documentation about `graphile-build`, please see [the graphile
documentation website at graphile.org](https://www.graphile.org/).** The
below just serves as a limited quick-reference for people already familiar
with the library.

**Please note: rather than using the raw plugin interface that
`graphile-build` exposes, you may want to use the helpers in
the `graphile-utils` module.**

Commit message:

sponsorship: add featured sponsors to READMEs

packages/graphile-build/README.md, after:

# graphile-build

<span class="badge-patreon"><a href="https://patreon.com/benjie" title="Support Graphile development on Patreon"><img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/sponsor-via%20Patreon-orange.svg" alt="Patreon sponsor button" /></a></span>
[![Discord chat room](https://img.shields.io/discord/489127045289476126.svg)](http://discord.gg/graphile)
[![Package on npm](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/graphile-build.svg?style=flat)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/graphile-build)
![MIT license](https://img.shields.io/npm/l/graphile-build.svg)
[![Follow](https://img.shields.io/badge/twitter-@GraphileHQ-blue.svg)](https://twitter.com/GraphileHQ)

`graphile-build` is the core of Graphile Engine. It provides a framework to
build high-performance extensible GraphQL APIs by combining plugins and using
advanced query look-ahead features. Each plugin typically has its own small
purpose (such as implementing the Node interface, adding `query: Query` to
mutation payloads, or watching an external source for schema changes) and by
combining these plugins together you get a large, powerful, and manageable
GraphQL schema. Plugins enable you to make broad changes to your GraphQL
schema with minimal code and without sacrificing performance.

An example of an application built on `graphile-build` is
[PostGraphile](https://github.com/graphile/postgraphile) which with one
command connects to your PostgreSQL database and provides a full highly
performant standards-compliant GraphQL API. The separate `graphile-build-pg`
module contains the plugins that are specific to PostgreSQL support
(`graphile-build` itself does not know about databases).

<!-- SPONSORS_BEGIN -->

## Crowd-funded open-source software

To help us develop this software sustainably under the MIT license, we ask
all individuals and businesses that use it to help support its ongoing
maintenance and development via sponsorship.

### [Click here to find out more about sponsors and sponsorship.](https://www.graphile.org/sponsor/)

And please give some love to our featured sponsors 🤩:

<table><tr>
<td align="center"><a href="http://chads.website/"><img src="https://www.graphile.org/images/sponsors/chadf.png" width="90" height="90" alt="Chad Furman" /><br />Chad Furman</a></td>
<td align="center"><a href="https://timescale.com/"><img src="https://www.graphile.org/images/sponsors/timescale.svg" width="90" height="90" alt="Timescale" /><br />Timescale</a></td>
</tr></table>

<!-- SPONSORS_END -->

## Documentation

**For in-depth documentation about `graphile-build`, please see [the graphile
documentation website at graphile.org](https://www.graphile.org/).** The
below just serves as a limited quick-reference for people already familiar
with the library.

**Please note: rather than using the raw plugin interface that
`graphile-build` exposes, you may want to use the helpers in
the `graphile-utils` module.**
