---
layout: page
path: /postgraphile/versioning-policy/
title: Versioning Policy
---

TL;DR: breaking changes to the GraphQL schema require a major version update.
Breaking changes to the plugin interface would typically require a major
version update, but in extremely rare cases may be included in a minor version
update. TypeScript type changes may occur in patch updates, but we'll do our
best to keep breakage to an absolute minimum. We only support LTS versions of
Node and Postgres, once they are no longer LTS we no longer support them.

## Semver

PostGraphile (without third party plugins) follows semver: `major.minor.patch`.
Small fixes go into a patch, nice new features go into a minor release, and
breaking changes would require a major release.

### Stable schema

PostGraphile wants to help you make maintainable GraphQL APIs, as such any
change that will break your existing GraphQL schema (e.g. by making something
nullable that wasn't previously, or removing a field) would be a breaking change
and require a major version update (e.g. 5.0.0 -> 6.0.0). To work around this,
we will often add configuration options (or updated presets) to opt into new
functionality before it is enabled by default.

### Exception: schema ordering

We do not see changes in the order of fields, types, enum values, directives,
etc in a GraphQL schema as a semantic difference, and thus may change them in a
patch release. Generally we won't, because when we do we have to update our
tests, but it might happen.

If you require schema entities to be in a particular order, you can enforce
an order via a plugin, for example this plugin sorts object type fields alphabetically (which is probably not a good idea):

```ts
// Make sure this is the last plugin to be added, and if necessary add
// `after: [...]` to it containing a list of the names of all the plugins that
// add fields.
const SortFieldsAlphabetically: GraphileConfig.Plugin = {
  name: "SortFieldsAlphabetically",
  version: "0.0.0",

  schema: {
    hooks: {
      GraphQLObjectType_fields(fields) {
        const entries = Object.entries(fields);
        entries.sort(([a], [z]) => a.localeCompare(z, "en-US"));
        return Object.fromEntries(entries);
      },
    },
  },
};
```

### Exception: plugins

Plugins are seen as more "experimental" than the GraphQL schema generated by
the built in presets. Sometimes we need to make tiny breaking changes to a
plugin or the plugin interface in order to enable some new functionality or fix
some bug, if we deem that these are likely to affect less than 1% of users then
we might include them in a minor release (e.g. 5.0.0 -> 5.1.0). Despite this,
breaking changes to the plugin interface are seen as a major issue and will be
avoided as much as possible. Interfaces that are documented on the website(s)
will not be broken without a **very good reason** - so stick to the documented
APIs!

### Exception: TypeScript types

TypeScript is constantly changing, and our types can always be improved. Since
PostGraphile is such a large project it wouldn't make sense to release a major
version every time we make a TypeScript type more accurate, and thus we exclude
TypeScript from semver. We will do our best to avoid major issues, and in the
unlikely event that you hit TypeScript issues when upgrading PostGraphile be
sure to check the release notes for fixes or workarounds.

### Exception: unmaintained Node.js and PostgreSQL

Once an LTS version of Node or PostgreSQL is no longer supported by its
maintainers, we may drop support for it in a patch release (although it's more
likely that we'd use a minor release). You may feel that this is a violation of
semver, but we do not (and also, even if it is, we're going to do it anyway).
Supporting unsupported versions of Node or PostgreSQL does not make sense, no
reasonable user should be using these unsupported versions because they may
contain unpatched security vulnerabilities, and since no-one should be using
them, dropping support for them should not be a breaking change. QED.

## Use a lockfile

TL;DR: use a lockfile.

PostGraphile will add support for wider versions of GraphQL (and other
dependencies) over time without requiring a major or minor update. PostGraphile
does not treat these as breaking changes as it's assumed that you follow Node.js
best practices and use a package lockfile, such as `yarn.lock` (yarn) or
`package-lock.json` (npm). You can use features such as
[yarn's "resolutions"](https://yarnpkg.com/lang/en/docs/selective-version-resolutions/)
to pin a particular dependency (such as `graphql`) to a particular version (such
as `0.13.x`).
